okay hey everybody it's saster I'm with
one of my favorite entrepreneurs and
CEOs Goddard Abel uh he has been doing
SAS probably for longer than we both
care to admit right when I got into the
industry uh in 2005 he was already a
leading founder with a company called
big machines you probably haven't heard
of it but it was so early in the world
of SAS and cloud and then they sold for
like 400 million I think it blew my mind
back in the day that that anyone could
sell the company for 400 million right
before we had any unicorns
and then he went on from that and did a
bunch of things founded multiple I think
like three companies after that right is
that right I think we've had three after
that
um yes depending on how you count them
but um obviously not to a CEO and a
couple more where I'm exact chairman and
then G2 was interesting we're gonna talk
about G2 today because everyone either
has used G2 is a G2 customer uh looks at
the research is at least written a
review I'd be shocked if anyone that
doesn't watch or read this hasn't
participated in G2 but I want to go a
little bit deeper and learn some things
but just for fun I remember when I was
still running Echo sign now Adobe signed
G2 was there in the beginning so you had
this Vision it's got to probably been
over a decade right so what was the
original vision and how is it I mean a
decade's long time how has it evolved
differently than you thought
yeah well we did start all the way back
in 2012. yeah over a decade and honestly
it was a long slow slog at the beginning
frankly so slow that I went to found
steel brick and built that and sold the
Salesforce before coming back
and during that time my co-founder Tim
andorff was had a product original he
did a great job actually scaling that
platform getting at the critical mass
but what did take a long time was to
actually get people to write reviews and
I remember at the beginning we thought
oh great idea we're going to build a
Yelp for business software yeah and uh
you know I think we were all I'm sure
you were we were all frustrated by the
status quoiver industry which was
Gardner
and particularly when we were building
big machines I just remember we did
start all the way back in 2000 so I've
been building SAS companies Now 23 years
but I remember it took us nine years to
get into Gardner report yeah and
actually I remember I think four years
in there was a garden analyst sort of
report that said like cpq is dead Oracle
and sap own it it's over I'm never
writing another report so that wasn't
helpful and then but they finally
eventually they came back with a sales
configuration Market scope and I think
we were finally mentioned in 09 2012
became a leader so I took 12 years
and frankly like that also wasn't the
favorite part of my job you know
briefing analyst Frankie was the least
favorite part and uh so we just thought
and we were spending about a hundred
thousand a year with them and we just
sat by this kind of broken capitalism
you know where you're paying a lot of
money to somebody you're paying them to
speak your conference you don't
necessarily think they're that
interesting yeah and you don't really
necessarily value your strategic advice
but you have to pretend you know you
have to play the game and we play the
game because it was important and
eventually it worked but we just thought
that had to be a better way and also for
software buyers you know and I think
also 2012 that's actually what Mark
Andreessen said software's eating the
world yeah I'm still trying to figure
out what that means but keep going yeah
well then I like to say the world needs
a buffet of software
um and you know GT was at Cafe and then
just like for food at restaurants right
we thought user reviews were missing
and that was my other story about the
traditional analyst it's like you know
it's like asking they're like restaurant
critics that can't eat the food they're
standing outside the restaurant saying
hey Jason how was your meal you know the
interview customers but they can't
actually eat the food so we're like hey
why not just ask the diners the users of
software yeah and uh we just thought our
industry needed it
um but it was also hard business to
start because I remember I went early on
pitched some like early stage VCS Angels
they're actually all very skeptical
yeah they're like oh this isn't just
another SAS thing how are you gonna
Gartner was huge back then Gartner's
always been huge right true and they've
done very well you know they're very
well run company you know and I think
that's also good I think they're the big
incumbent and you know they've I don't
know like a 20 30 billion dollar market
cap they keep growing very well-run
company but yeah but we still think
their Insight model is is more of a
legacy model and uh and we just thought
you know we we want to give software
buyers a site where they can discover
the right apps and that's also become I
think a huge challenge now and partly
thanks to saster there's so many more
SAS apps now there's over a hundred
thousand so many G2
so that we can consider a dispositive
number because those are all real apps
there's a hundred thousand pain Revenue
generating SAS apps at a bare minimum
right
yeah they're not necessarily all paying
I mean most those listings are free no
no but they are Revenue they probably
wouldn't be revenue generated and they
wouldn't be on G2 right folks
we validate their real apps with real
features and so yeah there's over a
hundred thousand real SAS apps out there
today which is obviously just phenomenal
and I think it does also create a
challenge though for the software buyer
you know because odds are there is a
purpose-built app for you Jason for your
industry for your business function for
your business problem but how do you
describe it yeah and then secondly how
do you trust it and those are really the
problems you know we we set out to solve
a G2 uh when when we started
have you added curiosity have you done
interesting I think the answer is yes
but that second tier of apps right you
know when we go back on you know going
the the classic Gartner magic quadrant
all you do is look to the upper right
and that happens at G2 as well but I'll
see a hundred apps or 200 apps in a
category do you boost that second
category because that's always this
weird elusive area with the big analysts
right is how do I take advantage of it
if I'm not yet that number one if I'm
not the G2 or the HubSpot or the
Salesforce yeah and actually right now
I'm looking at e-signature to go back to
your old world and we have 332 listings
yeah any signature software and uh of
course does it help number eight does G2
help I mean I know it's it's you're
selling this but how do but I think that
discovery of number ever 332 always
wants to get into Market but I find that
the 8 to 20 is the toughest part and
sometimes to be isn't it true yeah and I
think what we do we want to help the
seller but of course we want to help the
buyer so I think one unique thing and
the problem like Gardner Forster they
publish like one way one quadrant and
it's one document in other words G2 It's
All Digital so of course you can start
to filter like hey I'm an SMB
on the mid-market company I'm Enterprise
so you can filter by company size by
industry yeah and so then that obviously
helps the buyer because you know some of
those 10 to 30 they might be the best I
don't know what hospital signatures or
making this yeah vertical be the best
for a vertical they might be the best
for smbs they might be the best for
Enterprise so the whole idea by having a
data driven platform
you know versus an analyst is that the
buyer can dial it in and I do think in
terms of also what's new at G2 and
obviously in the world you know
generative AI and we also we have
launched a G2 AI Monty
this year it's powered by gbt
and I actually think that's going to be
one of the best ways to you know
discover the long tail apps for software
buyers because more you can just put in
your requirements and frankly in today
probably people know what e-signature is
right but maybe 10 or 20 years ago
people don't even know what it was yeah
just like saying Hey how do I close my
deals more efficiently
and you know then with Monty Monty can
ask more questions you have to sign up
for Monty so we know your company your
industry but then with Monty we can
actually guide you based on the business
problem you're solving to the best app
and you may not know what category
because that's the other Challenge on G2
there's over 2 000 categories now on G2
as well
and the reality is most software buyers
don't necessarily know what category to
look in they just know I have a business
problem
and they know their context or industry
their company environment but you know
they don't know what what app or even
what category of apps helps them and
that's where we are excited about Monty
can actually based on the conversation
about their business problems could
actually guide them to the best apps and
I think it also lead to more long tail
Discovery because you know if that
business buyer has some problem you
uniquely solve for some vertical let's
say you know Monty will will recommend
it and uh so we're so we're really
excited that you know I think that will
make long tail Discovery a lot easier
it's interesting and do you need uh if
there's a hundred thousand apps Plus in
general in 2000 some categories
and the average buyer maybe buys 200
right I get why you'd absolutely want an
agent right something like Monty why do
you need for real why do you need chat
gbt well I couldn't have been
architected with some other database or
language model
um because you don't need to pull in
everything from the internet you have an
update on G2 I only need the G2 data to
get good answers don't I
well kind of kind of I mean I think you
know we have tried for over 10 years to
build like guided buying experiences if
you will like filtering based on
industry and Company size Etc but
honestly none of them ever worked great
and especially I think a lot of insight
in G2 reviews also we we ask a bunch of
structured data questions you know like
one category will ask like e-signature
will actually aspect 25 different
questions mainly structured data Plus
unstructured data like what do you like
what do you dislike what business
problem you're solving now think of
actually where the AI is good with the
unstructured data
you know so you can just use words like
you know we can match hey this business
problem that sometimes let's solve that
matches really well to these apps for
example regardless of category and I do
think for all software it's just a
better interface
you know then like forms based querying
and searching which is almost all
enterprise software today and Frankie
traditional search including the search
on g2.com like if you go to my search
box honestly kind of sucks yeah because
that's all the problems big problem yeah
which is a big problem it is and frankly
also on G2 when I want to search G2 I
use I go back to Google and we have
great SEO but our in Insight search is
bad
I think it is on most websites and most
apps you know so I do just think
conversational AI a much better
interface to discover apps on GT but
really to discover anything you know the
nice thing is you're not forced into
like a forms based structure it can have
a q a that feels just much more like
frankly you're talking an Accenture
consultant
you know but but I think the advantage
of Monty has over an Accenture because
consensual consultant might be like hey
I'm really deep in CRM for telcos and
they spent their career there and you
could probably ask them any question
about CRM for Telco and they would crush
the answer
but you know but the van Monte has an AI
has right he can learn on everything and
I actually think that generalized
Knowledge from the internet helps as
well and that's why it builds on top of
chat GPT just because like for the human
nature of the dialogue and then we train
Monty we inject our data we also train
it on software q a conversations we're
still training it it's still an alpha
and I'd love for you all to try it you
know it's available on g2.com and
obviously we take your feedback so we're
still dialing it in but it's honestly
like I think Super promising and I do
think it will be a much better way to
guide software buyers
to the best apps for them to consider
yeah it is it is interesting because
um I mean G2 does a lot of interesting
things but my personal experience you
know about 80 of the advice I get is
either bad uh in quotes for apps it's
biased or it's just to buy the number
one right which which is fair right I
mean it's to do the brand so number one
yeah usually is safe right so a lot of
safe right like safe on many levels I
think these days it's not just safe
because you don't get fired that's the
old view it's safe because if it's 10
years old it's probably gonna work
true you know it's like there's
different levels of safe I think and
there's privacy they're secure privacy
there's Enterprise edification there's
vendor transition or acquisition or
change right uh that's why that's right
so I do think and I think in some ways
it reminds me of like investment banker
pitches you know like everyone is number
one at something yeah and I've never
done an IPO hopefully someday I will but
apparently they come pitch you they're
like hey Jason like we're everyone's
number one and they're like well we're
number one in like Bay Area IPOs and SAS
yeah the spring
um and maybe that's like you know kind
of BS but I think in software can
actually be real because you can be like
hey I may not be number one like I may
not be DocuSign but you know for smbs in
France in retail
I am number one yeah you know and then
if that matches who you are as a
customer if you fit that slice that
segment of the market
then that's actually very valuable right
and very valuable it's very very
valuable right and that I think is the
biggest advantage of G2 just being it's
just a big database now we have all our
data in Snowflake
and uh we're actually also selling Data
Solutions now like we have over 50
investors as customers a lot of leading
VCS private Equity firms even now
McKinsey Bain BCG Road stage for the
later stage folks looking for signals
even early
you know and I think they all wish to
remain confidential but almost every top
tier VC now has a data strategy yeah you
know we're not the only data source but
I think they all say hey for private
software companies to get product level
data we're probably the best and
obviously they match that up with like
employee data from LinkedIn and
Glassdoor data and all these other data
sets but it does allow them and right
now it's not so hot but obviously two
years ago in every VC they all had to
become bdrs right they all had to do
Outreach because the hot deals wouldn't
come to them they had to go find them
Based on data so today in some ways but
yeah yeah and is that is that that's
interesting is that I mean you've been
doing stuff for a long time is that
that's not a distraction to your core I
get why you have the data and why people
will pay you 100 Grand or 50 grand for
it I don't know what the price is but
I'm sure you can get 20 grand to 100
Grand I'm putting in quotes that's
relatively easy it is honestly it's like
50 to 100K yeah investor already yeah
and uh and yeah you could say it's a
distraction but the beauty of it is
really not right because we have just
put all our data in a snowflake data
Lake and especially the sophisticated
investors especially headphones types
are like hey just give me apis
yeah and we are adding now a user
interface but we actually see it
synergistic because we also sell it now
as Market intelligence to software
vendors
and for example you know I was talking
to our mutual Fred Nick from game site
yeah and you know now they're owned by
this Equity but they're always looking
for adjacencies to be a good customer
yeah also looking at like hey what's the
data what are the adjacent markets to
customer success product experience
management how are they trending how are
those categories trending how are the
vendors trending you know so it can also
be very strategic certainly for m a
competitive strategy and so and honestly
for G2 it's also more strategic product
to sell because you know our core
solution is more demand gen driven which
was two years ago amazing honestly in
the last year it's been challenging you
know we've seen a lot more burned right
because marketers are all cutting back
like one of our board members Megan
Eisenberg whom you probably know you
know a long time CMO she was actually VP
of marketing DocuSign way back in the
day all right remember yeah we do her
well trip actions lace work now but
anyway she said she thinks her average
peers cutting back that growth stage CMO
they're cutting back spend 50 percent
you know so it's a tough environment if
you're selling Marketing Solutions which
we do
um and you know so our growth has slowed
but I think that's what I also like
about Mark intelligence that's more
strategic by right if it becomes part of
your annual product strategy and you
know your competitive strategy all of a
sudden it's also a stickier product but
a long way of saying we think that that
data product and by the way that's also
what we use to train Monty you know you
need all this data and the data Lake
anyway
and Monty can even be used Now by
investors and Consultants where you can
just query the data
that's powerful investors actually love
working that way you know they also
don't want to do reports and graphs you
know they just want to say like back in
the day like when emergence was
investing in you they're like hey how's
yeah how's this Echo sign compare to
DocuSign or yeah are they winning are
they losing why why do customers switch
why don't they the beauty of a
conversational AI interface they can
pull out all those answers in a
conversation
and Judy that just had it I don't want
to talk about marketers before running
out of time but do you need to just
accuracy do you need a second sales team
to sell this data product to investment
Banks and others or can the same folks
sell it yes now you can't it's a
different language you know so that
you're competing with pitch books and uh
CB insights and maybe you're additive in
some way it's not a direct comp but you
need folks that know that that that
language in that industry right we have
found we need a different sales team and
honestly even now selling Market
intelligence to software marketers Yeah
we actually have now we've taken overlay
personal used to sell Data Solutions
because we also find like it's just a
different sale you know because now like
at Salesforce you might know like John
tashek you know he's like the best
Market intelligence and insights but
that's just very different than selling
to a demand gen marketer yeah radically
different right so you might almost need
three two two and a half sales teams in
an overlay right which is you know maybe
not as good but Frankie also strengthens
our pitch and part of my pitch like an
entrepreneur disaster would be like hey
by the way you know reviews don't just
influence customers which is actually
most important but by the way they also
influence all these investors
and consultants and I think what I've
also heard anecdotally which is kind of
fun you know people always check out
Glassdoor reviews now I think you know
before they're in a company to see about
the culture but I think also most people
looking at companies now they're also
like oh let's look at the G2 reviews
right because you want to know for sure
that be are the customers happy so and
that's kind of also our pitch it's like
hey it's an overall brand platform
because ultimately the quality the
satisfaction of your products that's
going to be important to everyone right
customers investors Partners employees
um so you know so it's all which is kind
of cool 10 years in I think that that
was kind of the vision but it's it's
starting to happen more and more where
it's just influencing you know people in
the software industry yeah I certainly
personally use G2 a lot
to get us yeah to get a sense of the
quality of a vendor right as an employee
might for a variety of reasons just to
get it is like a glass door right
um I already we already know the top the
top names out there of the hundred
thousand but I just want to quickly know
especially in crowded categories uh I'll
invest my time for a myriad of reasons
if it's a breakout in some way right I
just want to know is it breakout or is
it one of these ones where people bang
their heads on the table because they
have no ability to to compete in the
market and yeah g2's powerful that but
the the market of the demand gen thing
tell me what you're seeing I think
everyone's interesting I'm seeing
um uh a hint a hint of a cautious
recovery in marketing spend a hint of it
I'm seeing a hint of fatigue of cuts per
year a hint of well now we have no
pipeline for q1 of next year uh we have
a plan for next year right it's not what
it was but we got to grow so I'm seeing
lapping tough times leading to a hint of
cautious recovery but that's across
maybe 200 sponsors and partners what are
you seeing across a much wider swath is
am I being delusional or too optimistic
in this cautious recovery
I'm probably not so cautiously
optimistic that you know we're at the
bottom of the parabola yes you know and
we're probably in our you know we're in
the Salesforce fiscal year so we're just
starting our Q3 but I'm kind of hoping
in terms of all overall industry growth
sentimentary management spend at Q2 Q3
is sort of the bottom right and then
we'll
start to come out of it but you know and
I think that's so far what our data is
saying you know but you know but I think
we need more time and I think we also
none of us know how long the bottom of
this Parabola is going to be yeah but it
does feel like yeah the big cuts I think
have been made and now like you said
people also at some point and especially
all the VC tech companies are at some
point I also got this in my board
meeting they're like hey go to our
screen you're getting more efficient but
you know what about the 50 print of
growth like okay yeah I mean you gotta
you got it you got to spend you got to
spend it you got to deploy it as a
marketer right maybe less but that's
what I think I'm seeing um but oddly
still tied to needing to show very
short-term Roi right the way for us for
us the most
the thing that's changed so much in the
last 12 to 18 months it's just
interesting because I get to see a
different slice of marketers than you do
right as I would say in 2021 you know
what no one wanted from saster was a
lead scan it's a scan Goddard we've been
doing this for a long time what I want
is a qualified buy I want 10 qualified
buyers not a thousand scans and then
something changed about six months ago
is every CMO or marketers being judged
this quarter
so pipeline like pipe hooray pipeline
what did you get this quarter so it's
very interesting to see
scans as a proximately become the most
important I've seen in 10 years because
you could show it you can go back home
and you can say the next day I got it
even if you and I know it's two it's two
it's too high up on the pipeline isn't
it
yeah no I I agree I mean there's that
and I think also our
sales Cycles have lengthened right
conversion is length and that's happened
for most people now under Market is also
Under Pressure hey give me some stuff
that's going to convert now wow yeah
um and we're actually seeing it also at
G2 I mean one of the things we're
changing you know we have a free profile
we're very committed to free because
like I said we we never wanted to be
like the traditionally unless we have to
pay us to be number one
um you know but we also like we had you
know maybe too many ctas on our free
profile and all of a sudden we're seeing
yeah people value clicks which might be
our now is our analogy to uh scans yep
show it now right now we're like hey
clicks are now part of our basic paid
edition if you want custom ctas and yeah
we used to get some of those away for
free but we're seeing how people really
value that and frankly we're giving away
free value they weren't even recognizing
so we we do see that you know and uh
yeah but our pitch is also hey while
you're getting that short term right
obviously you also build your long-term
brand you know so we like to say we're
giving people both but but I think
you're right there's there's a lot of
short-term pressure like I need Roi now
yeah otherwise there is no long term
it's tough though because you've got you
as a marketer you've gotta you gotta
deliver their goods for 2024 too it's a
hard it's a harder job than ever CMO I
say right I think it's a harder job that
ever all right less budget yeah and give
higher quality pipeline that converts
now okay well Goddard this was great I
was going to ask you what's the coolest
thing on your roadmap but I think it's
Monty I think Monty that is going to
come evolve further and further and a
way to get the best out of a hundred
thousand apps is probably the most
exciting thing uh actually two today for
the next 12 months do I have that right
you do have it right and Monty software
buyers the other thing I will say we're
also building a Monty for sellers
Theory being can we you know if you have
a listing on G2 can we convert it for
you to a deal
by training Monty to also kind of answer
all your sales FAQs who are also
experimenting with that so I'm excited
you know that would be that would change
the game we're excited about we're and
my co-founder Tim he's now our leading
our Labs team my code two co-founders
are working on Monty because we're like
this is the most important thing yeah
both for the software buyer and
everything in software sell all right
but if we can automatically start having
software transactions happen yeah that
would be you know breakthrough Monty's
your SDR bdr or Montage or AE in that in
that in that scenario
uh ideally both yeah I guess so
auntie and we're using it we're trying
it for on G2 Marketing Solutions but
it's always whenever you train in AI you
know but it's amazing how quickly they
learn you know of course it's very easy
now to get like 90 yeah getting them to
100 is a different thing but it's uh I
think it's very promising well seriously
we should break what I've learned on the
e-commerce side of things which b2cs
even B2B to C is usually ahead of B2B
right everything's automation right and
the best platforms are automating 40 of
consumer interactions right in
e-commerce and so maybe that can happen
on B2B maybe 40 of sales do not require
a broken process and the world's best AI
can do it for you right they can
negotiate the price give you your
answers not lie to you no churn and burn
no games honest about the competition
[Laughter]
zero cost of sale
yeah and uh I'm excited okay I'm excited
about all the money we're gonna check in
again about six months on money Goddard
thank you for all the great time this is
super fun thank you Jason look forward
to seeing you at saster soon see you
then okay see you Jason